Captain! Something is mOVll1g on the ice. Look
over there!'
The sailor stood at the top of the mast, high above the
Captain. His hand pointed away from the ship, across the
miles of ice that covered the sea.
The Captain looked to the north, where the sailor was
pointing. He saw something coming fast towards the
ship across the ice. He put his telescope to his eye, and
through it he could see the shapes of ten dogs pulling a
sledge over the ice. He could also see the driver of the
sledge - a huge figure, much bigger than a man.
The sledge came nearer and nearer to the sea. Soon it
was only a quarter of a mile from the ship. No one
'Captain! Something is moving on the ice. Look over there!'
1
Frankenstein
needed a telescope now to see the huge figure of the
driver.
Suddenly the sledge went behind a mountain of ice and
disappeared. At that moment another sledge appeared. It,
too, was moving fast, and was clearly chasing the first
sledge. This driver was a smaller figure, more like an
ordinary man. Faster and faster the dogs ran; then the
second sledge also disappeared behind the mountain of
ICe.
Two hours passed. The sledges did not appear again.
Nothing moved on the ice. Soon night came, and in the
night there was a storm. In the morning, the sailors saw
that great pieces of ice we"re floating round the ship.
Suddenly the sailor on the mast shouted again.
'Captain, I can see a man on the ice.'
The sailor was pointing to a piece of ice that was
floating near the ship. A man was sitting on the ice, and
Soon night came, and in the night there was a storm.
2
Frankenstein
near him was a broken sledge. The man was nearly dead
from cold and could not walk. The sailors carried him
carefully on to the ship, and took him to the Captain,
who said:
'Welcome to my ship. I am the Captain and my name is
Robert Walton.'
'Thank you, Captain Walton,' the man said. 'My name
is Frankenstein, Victor Frankenstein.'
Then he fainted and said no more.
Two days passed before the man was strong enough to
talk and then the Captain asked him to tell his story.
'I am trying to catch someone,' said Frankenstein.
'That is why I have come so far north on the ice.'
'We saw you following someone,' the Captain said. 'He
was huge, much bigger than. a man. We saw his ~ledge
just in front of you on the 11lght before the storm. .
'I am pleased you all saw that huge figure,' Frankenstem
said. 'Perhaps that will help you to believe my story.'.
During the days, while the Captain worked on th~ ShIp,
Frankenstein wrote down his story, and each evenmg he
read what he had written to the Captain.
Here is Victor Frankenstein's story.
3
Victor Frankenstein's Story Begins
2
I was born in Switzerland, in the town of Geneva. My
parents loved each other very much, and I learnt from
the example of their love. I learnt that to love and to be
patient are the most important things in the world.
My mother hoped to have a daughter after I was born,
but for five years I was the only child. And then my
mother found a sister for me. She was helping a family in
which there were five children. They were very poor, and
the children were thin and hungry. One of the children
was a little girl, with golden hair and blue eyes. Her name
was Elizabeth. My mother took the little girl into our
family, and Elizabeth became the daughter that my
mother had always wanted. As I grew older, my love for
Elizabeth became stronger all the time.
Later my mother had two other sons, Ernest and
William. A young woman called Justine came to Jive in
the house to help my mother with the children. We loved
her as much as she loved us.
The years passed happily, and we had everything that
we needed. At school I met another very fine person. His
name was Henry Clerval, and he was very clever. My
family also liked him very much, so he was a welcome
visitor to our house.
4
One ofthe children was a little girl, with golden hair and blue eyes.
Her name was Eltzabeth.
Frankenstein
I studied very hard at school. I wanted to know the
secrets of life, and, most of all, I wanted to know how to
make living things. I read all the books that I could find.
One day, something happened that added a new idea to
the ideas that I already had. I was fifteen at the time and , we were on holiday in the mountains. There was a wild
storm, and with it came the most frightening thunder and
lightning that I have ever seen in my life. About twenty
metres in front of our house was a great tree. Suddenly a
huge fork of lightning hit the tree. After a few seconds,
there was nothing left of it except a black piece of wood
two metres high. The .Iightning had destroyed it.
I saw how strong electricity was. I began to read all
the books that I could find about electricity and its terrible
power.
3
For sevente~n years my life was very happy. Then the
first sad th1l1g happened. My mother became very ill,
and soon she knew that she was dying. Just before she
died, she asked Elizabeth and me to go to her room. She
held Our hands and said:
'My children, I am very happy because you love each
other, and because one day you will get married.
Everyone in the family loves you, Elizabeth. Will you take
my place in the family, my dear? I can die happy if you
will look after them when I have gone.'
6
Victor Frankenstein's Story
My mother died, and we were very sad, because we
loved her dearly. Elizabeth was brave and helped us; her
sweet smile gave us some happiness in the unhappy days
after my mother's death.
The time came for me to go to university. I did not
want to leave my sad family, but we all knew that I
should go. It was hard to leave, too, because the parents
of my good friend Henry Clerval would not let him go to
university with me. And so I had to go alone.
On my first day at the university I met my teacher,
Professor Waldman, who was one of the greatest
scientists in the world. He gave a wonderful talk to all the
students who were starting at the university. He ended his
talk by saying: 'Some of you will become the great
scientists of tomorrow. You must study hard and
discover everything that you can. That is why God made
_ you intelligent - to help other people.'
After the professor's talk, I thought very carefully. I
remembered the storm when I was fifteen. I remembered
how the lightning had destroyed the tree. I wanted to use
electricity to help people, and I wanted to discover the
secrets of life. I decided to work on these two things. I did
not know then that my work would destroy me and the
people that I loved.
I started work the next day. I worked very hard and
soon Professor Waldman and I realized that I could learn
to be a very good scientist.
The professor helped me very much, and other
7
Frankenstein
How does life begin? Is it possible to put life into dead things?
important scientists who were his friends helped m ,too.
I was interested in my work and I did not take one day's
holiday during the next two years. I did not go home, and
my letters to my family were very short.
After two years I had discovered many things and I
built a scientific machine that was better than anything in
the university. My machine would help me answer the
most important question of all. How does life begin? Is it
possible to put life into dead things? To answer these
questions about life I had to learn first about death. I had
to watch bodies from the moment when they died and the
warm life left them. In the hospital and in the university, I
watched the dying and the dead. Day after day, month
after month, I followed death. It was a dark and terrible
time.
Then one day, the answer came to me. Suddenly I was
sure that I knew the secret of life. I knew that I could put
8
Victor Frankenstein's Story
life into a body that was not alive.
I worked harder and harder now. I slept for only a
short time each night, and I did not eat much food. I
wrote to my family less often. But they loved me and did
not stop writing to me. They said they understood how
busy I was. They did not want me to stop work to write
or to see them. They would wait until I had more time.
They hoped to see me very soon.
The professors realized that I was doing very important
work, and so they gave me my own laboratory. There
was a small flat above the laboratory, where I lived, and
sometimes I stayed inside the building for a week and did
not go out.
Above the laboratory I built a very tall mast. It was 150
metres high, and higher than the tallest building in the
city. The mast could catch lightning and could send the
electricity down to my machine in the laboratory. I had
never forgotten tl~e lightning that had destroyed the tree.
There had been so much power in the electricity of that
lightning. I believed I could use that electricity to give life
to things that were dead.
I will say no mOre than that. The secret of my machine
must die with me. I was a very clever scientist, but I did
not realize then what a terrible mistake I was making.
9
4
I n my laboratory I made a body. I bought or stole all
the pieces of human body that I needed, and slowly
and carefully, I put them all together.
I did not let anybody enter my laboratory or my flat
while I was doing this awful work. I was afraid to tell
anybody my terrible secret.
I had wanted to make a beautiful man, but the face of
the creature was horrible. Its skin was thin and yellow,
and its eyes were as yellow as its skin. Its long black hair
and white teeth were almost beautiful, but the rest of the
face was very ugly.
Its legs and arms were the right shape, but they were
huge. I had to use big pieces because it was too difficult to
I bought or stole all the pieces ofhuman body that I needed.
10
Victor Frankenstein's Story
join small pieces together. My creature was two and a
half metres tall.
For a year I had worked to make this creature, but now
it looked terrible and frightening. I almost decided to
destroy it. But I could not. I had to know if I could put life
into it.
I joined the body to the wires from my machine. More
wires joined the machine to the mast. I was sure that my
machine could use electricity from lightning to give life to
the body. I watched and waited. Two days later I saw
dark clouds in the sky, and I knew that a storm was
coming. At about one o'clock in the morning the lightning
came. My mast began to do its work immediately, and
the electricity from the lightning travelled down the mast
to my machine. Would the machine work?
At first nothing happened. But after a few minutes I
saw the creature's body begin to move. Slowly, terribly,
the body came alive. Its arms and legs began to move, and
slowly it sat up.
The dead body had been an ugly thing, but alive, it was
much more horrible. Suddenly I wanted to escape from it.
I ran out of the laboratory, and locked the door. I was
filled with fear at what I had done.
For hours I walked up and down in my flat. At last I lay
down on my bed, and fell asleep. But my sleep was full of
terrible dreams, and I woke up suddenly. The horrible
thing that I had created was standing by my bed. Its
yellow eyes were looking at me; its mouth opened and it
11
Frankenstein
made strange sounds at me. On its yellow face there was
an awful smile. One of its huge hands reached towards
me ...
Before it could touch me, I jumped off the bed and ran
downstairs into the garden. I stayed there all night, but I
could not think clearly. I was afraid. And when morning
came, I went out into the town and began to walk about.
I did not notice where I was walking, but soon I came
to the station. A train from Geneva had just arrived, and
the passengers were leaving the station. One of them ran
towards me when he saw me. It was my dear friend
Henry Clerval.
He was very pleased to see me. He took my hand and
shook it warmly.
'My dear Victor!' he said. 'What a lucky chance that
you are here at the station. Your father, and Elizabeth
and the others, are very worried about you, because you
have not visited them for a long time. They asked me to
make sure that you are well. And I have very good news.
My father has agreed to let me study at the university, so
we shall be able to spend a lot of time together.'
I was very happy to hear this news, and for a moment I
forgot my fears. I took Henry back to my flat and asked
him to wait outside while I went in to look. I was afraid
that the creature was still there. But it had disappeared.
At that time I did not think of other people, and what the
creature could do to them. I took Henry into the flat and
cooked a meal for us. But Henry noticed how thin I was,
12
Victor Frankenstein's Story
and that I was laughing too much and could not sit still.
Suddenly he said: 'My dear Victor, what is the matter
with you? Are you ill? Has something awful happened?'
'Don't ask me that,' I cried. I put my hands over my
eyes. I thought I could see the horrible creature there in
front of me. I pointed wildly across the room, and
shouted: 'He can tell you. Save me! Save me!' I tried to
fight the creature, but there was nothing there. Then I
fainted and fell to the floor.
Poor Henry! I do not know what he thought. He called
a doctor and they put me to bed. I was very ill for two
months, and Henry stayed and looked after me. His
loving care saved me from death.
I wanted to go home and see my family as soon as
possible. When I was well enough, I packed my clothes
and books. All my luggage was ready, and I was feeling
very happy when the postman arrived with some letters.
One of the letters ended my short time of happiness.
5
The letter was from my father in Geneva, and this
is what he wrote:
My dear Victor,
I want you to know before you arrive home that an
awful thing has happened. Your dear youngest
13
Frankenstein
brother, William, is dead. He was murdered. It
happened last Thursday evening when Elizabeth and
I and your two brothers, Ernest and William, went
for a walk outside the city. William and Ernest were
playing. William had hidden from Ernest, and
Ernest asked Elizabeth and me to help find William.
We all began to search for him, but we couldn't find
him. We searched all night. At five in the morning I
found him. He was lying on the grass, white and
still. I could see the marks of fingers on his neck -
the murderer had strangled him.
Elizabeth had let him wear a gold chain of hers
round his neck. On the chain was a very small
picture of your mother. We all think that someone
murdered William to steal the gold chain. Poor
Elizabeth is terribly unhappy at William's death. She
thinks he died because she let him wear the chain.
Hurry home, my dear Victor. You are the only one
who can help Elizabeth, and we all need you.
With all our love,
Your Father
Henry helped me to catch the train. The journey seemed
very long, and it was late at night before the train reached
Geneva. I decided to spend the night in a village outside
the town and go home early in the morning. I wanted to
see the place where William had died.
As I started my walk, a storm broke and lightning lit
14
Victor Frankenstein's Story
'Poor Elizabeth is terribly unhappy at William's death.'
the sky. The police had put posts round the place where
the murderer had strangled William, so I found it easily. I
cried sadly as I stood there. My poor brother had been a
kind and happy boy, and we had all loved him.
Again the lightning lit the sky, and I saw a huge figure
standing in the rain. When I saw it, I knew at once what it
was. It was the creature that I had made.
What was he doing there? But although I asked myself
the question, I knew the answer. He had murdered my
brother. I was sure that I was right.
I decided to try and catch him. But as I moved, he ran
towards the mountains. He ran much faster than any
man. He climbed the mountain easily, reached the top,
and disappeared.
I stood there in the dark and the rain, and knew that I
had created a monster. And he had murdered my brother.